COMP210 - Computer Networking
Lab 2: Packet Analysis with Wireshark
Student: Alex Rivera
Partner: Priya Nair
Date: March 10, 2026

---

OBJECTIVE:
Capture and analyze network packets using Wireshark to understand HTTP/HTTPS traffic patterns.

EQUIPMENT:
- Dell laptop running Windows 11
- Wireshark 4.2.3
- University lab network (192.168.10.0/24)

PROCEDURE:
1. Launched Wireshark and selected the active network interface (Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX201)
2. Applied capture filter: tcp port 80 or tcp port 443
3. Opened browser and navigated to http://testsite.lab (university test server, unencrypted)
4. Stopped capture after 30 seconds
5. Applied display filter: http

OBSERVATIONS:

HTTP Request observed:
GET /index.html HTTP/1.1
Host: testsite.lab
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 11.0)
Accept: text/html

HTTP Response:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2048

Observation: The full page content was visible in plaintext in the packet payload. Username and password fields submitted via HTTP forms appear completely unencrypted.

HTTPS comparison:
When navigating to https:// sites, payload is encrypted via TLS 1.3. Wireshark shows only the handshake metadata, not the content.

CONCLUSION:
HTTP transmits all data in plaintext, making it vulnerable to eavesdropping on unsecured networks. HTTPS using TLS encryption protects content from interception. All sensitive applications should use HTTPS with valid certificates.

QUESTIONS:
1. What is the purpose of the TCP three-way handshake?
   Answer: To establish a reliable connection before data is transmitted. SYN → SYN-ACK → ACK.

2. What does TTL stand for and what is its purpose?
   Answer: Time to Live. Prevents packets from circulating indefinitely. Decremented by 1 at each router hop.

3. Identify one security risk observed in the lab.
   Answer: HTTP form submission exposed credentials in plaintext. This would be a major vulnerability on a public network.

---
Grade received: 88/100
Comments: Good analysis. Next time include more detail on TCP flow control.
